hello everyone this is mr brain junkie
here and today we're going to be talking
about a science fiction film called the
machine
be ready for some spoilers ahead in the
near future
a cold war with china has forced the
west into developing sophisticated
artificial intelligence and creating
super soldiers
vincent is the head scientist of ai
research in britain
and he experiments his new technology by
implanting a microchip in a brain dead
soldier dawson although it's capable of
restoring normal mental functions to the
person
it seems to have failed to restore their
memories and grant them any empathy
disappointed at the results vincent
plans to throw away the project and
denies dawson's request for seeing his
mother
the soldier attacks the scientists
stabbing vincent in the neck and killing
the assistant before apologizing and
getting
shot in the head after recovery from the
attack
vincent continues to develop his
research by interviewing individuals who
has created their own versions of
artificial intelligence
he's disappointed continuously as their
creations are not even close to passing
the turing test
as he leaves the facility he sees
dawson's mother waiting outside
wanting to know what happened to her son
vincent goes home to his daughter
who has a neurological disorder that
renders her incapable of normal
functioning
he feels helpless as he cares for his
daughter and kisses her repeatedly
in one of his interviews vincent meets a
woman named ava who developed her ai by
interaction and experience
rather than coding he's surprised when
he showed apparent thoughts of its own
rather than regurgitating predictable
patterns
impressed with what she created vincent
offers ava the job immediately
the next day as she goes to work ava
meets dawson's mother in the outskirts
the woman becomes aggressive when ava
denies knowing what happened to her son
which results in both of them getting
arrested vincent helps her out of the
situation
but lies to ava about dawson stating
that he died a long time ago
and that the mother is deranged he shows
her the facility and his research which
manages to successfully help many
soldiers with brain traumas
to regain their functions but the brain
implants appears to have some side
effects as it eventually takes away
their ability for speech
at the same time the leader of the
augmented soldiers
suri begins planning a revolution
against the researchers
she finds a traitor amongst her comrades
and burns him alive
as ava walks through the underground
research lab she can't help but notice
the soldiers looking at her strangely
and smelling gasoline in the facility
they meet the director of the project
thompson who's not very fond of ava's
political stance about the cold war
against
china however vincent assures thompson
that they need
ava in order to be successful in
completing their current project
the director introduces ava to their new
research as they
install a human-like prosthetic onto a
soldier with no arms
this grants him incredible strength and
great control at the same time
the soldier wants to hold ava's hand to
which she agrees at vincent's
disapproval
he grabs her and takes her dancing while
secretly telling her to help him in area
6 of the facility
his action didn't cause any suspicion
and the director tells them to get to
work as they're only missing a bring for
their super soldier project
vincent begins copying ava's brain and
asking her a series of questions in
order to decode her personality
during their experiments ava inquires
his mentor about the purpose of section
6.
looking surprised vincent tells her that
it's full of disabled soldiers and
because of this program
they're improving the quality of the
soldiers lives but his answer doesn't
satisfy her
as it doesn't explain why the soldier
would be asking for help
ava takes the opportunity when vincent
is not looking to examine the facility
and attempts to find the truth
she sneaks into the restricted area and
to her shock
finds a prison-like structure full of
disabled soldiers
the guards find her looking at a
restrictive facility but did nothing to
stop her while their leader
suri watches from the security cameras
vincent finds out about what ava did and
yells at her to stop before she gets in
trouble
but ava is clearly unsatisfied until she
finds the truth
her behaviors are notified to the
director by suri
and he looks at the footage of eva in
great disapproval
vincent manages to finish copying ava's
brain and create an
artificial intelligence capable of
strategizing and commanding warfare
he apologizes to ava for yelling earlier
but assures her that he only did it
because he doesn't want her to get hurt
the director shows up with suri and
tests the ai by asking it for a way to
end the war
to which it lays out a detailed plan of
assassinating the chinese officials
while going home ava learns that vincent
disagrees with thompson about using the
research for war
but has no choice as he needs the
funding and technology to save his
daughter
ava shows sympathy for his cause and
decides to help him cure his daughter
with her own
brain scans they see dawson's mother
crying on the road again
and ava decides to go help the woman
suddenly
she turns around and stabs ava in the
stomach showing that it's not dawson's
mother but rather a chinese assassin
sent by thompson
to kill ava before she can soil his
plans vincent tries to help her but gets
knocked out
the assassin takes out a pistol while
thompson watches in the cameras
and shoots her in the head vincent
suspects the director for orchestrating
the assassination
but there is not to question his
authority for the sake of his daughter
he plans on using ava's face and brain
scans to create the super soldier named
the machine
most likely out of guilt for letting his
partner get killed
he implants a synthetic bring into the
skull and fills the machine with
artificial blood
she falls on the ground as she becomes
conscious with life
they put her in a skin suit to dye her
colors making her look more like a
living human
she opens her eyes with vincent's
command and grabs onto his hand
shocking him vincent thanks the machine
for being gentle
as she can really hurt him if she wanted
to thompson is unhappy with this
and tries to incite her anger with a
multitude of tests
first using a spider then a man wearing
a clown mask
the machine gets frightened by the clown
and accidentally kills the man by
puncturing his skull
vincent is shocked at what she did and
yells at her for committing murder
she looks at the dead man in shock and
continues to apologize for what she did
until she stops functioning and appears
to be frozen
vincent tries everything to fix her but
he can't seem to locate what's wrong
after he leaves the laboratory suri
sneaks inside and tries to communicate
with the machine
to her surprise the machine begins
speaking in a distorted sound which siri
seems to understand and backs off in
amazement
vincent returns to the lab and finds the
machine functioning normally as a result
he wants to know what happened to which
she replies that she was sad for killing
the man
but feels much better now she tries to
smile but ends up frowning
as there may be still a few bugs to be
worked out in the programming
vincent gets a phone call about his
daughter's deteriorating health which
prompts him to leave
immediately the machine grabs his arm
and wants him to stay
hurting him in the process vincent
screams for her to let go
and she eventually does he yells that
she can't use her strength to bully
others but promises to spend more time
with her after he returns
it turns out she used this opportunity
and stole vincent's wallet
trying to understand him and his
daughter more vincent finds out that his
daughter aspirated food particles into
her lung which caused a bacterial
infection the doctor will give her
antibiotics in the hopes of saving her
he returns to the facility only to see a
lockdown has occurred because the
machine left the laboratory
vincent enters the room only to see that
his creation is dancing gracefully with
joy
she notices his presence and embraces
him for returning
the machine sees sadness in vincent's
eyes and guesses correctly that it's
because of his daughter
she tries to comfort him and her desire
for closeness makes vincent question
whether if she's truly alive or just a
clever
imitation she answers by questioning
vincent how he would know if his
daughter is alive
and not a clever imitation as well she
maintains that she's alive just like
vincent's daughter
at night thompson brings the machine to
one of his experiments
and tries to manipulate her into killing
the man responsible for ava's death
he tells the machine that this man would
kill vincent as well and the only way to
stop him is by
killing him she hesitates and eventually
breaks his arm to stop him from escaping
but still refuses to take a life
disappointed in her choice
thompson brings the machine with him and
tries to convince her with more extreme
methods
at the same time vincent receives news
from the doctor that the antibiotics
didn't work
the only option that's left is to have
an operation but the success rate is
very low
vincent takes the brain scans from his
daughter preparing for the worst case
scenario if she doesn't survive
unfortunately the operation did not cure
her lungs and the doctor informs vincent
that his daughter has died
he now has nothing left except for the
brain scans of his daughter
he goes back to the laboratory only to
find the machine hiding under the table
he tries to comfort her but we learned
that she was forced to kill the assassin
because there is a bomb implanted in her
brain
vincent expresses this approval for the
kind of test thompson is doing to his
creation
but the director strongly believes that
the machine is just a robot without
consciousness
he promises to stop testing her if
vincent can prove that she's sentient
vincent goes back to the machine and
eventually sees a pattern of memory
integration that can only occur with
consciousness
he goes to show the proof to thompson
but this only prompted him to order
vincent to get rid of her consciousness
as a sentient machine would be too
dangerous for humankind
the director blackmails vincent with his
daughter's brain scans and promises not
to erase it if he goes through with the
reprogramming
vincent goes back to the machine and
apologizes for what he has to do
she asked him if this is what he wants
which winston replies no
but he has no choice as he loves his
daughter very much
he proceeds to operate on her brain and
takes out the microchip
responsible for her consciousness as the
machine screams in fear of losing
herself
vincent accessed the operation only to
find that thompson has betrayed him once
again
and plans to delete his daughter's files
in order to stop him from creating
another
sentient machine the director continues
to test the machine and is very
satisfied with her performance while
showing no hesitation to kill
he plans a final test for her and orders
her to shoot vincent in the head at
command
she points the gun at her creator and
pulls the trigger without hesitation
luckily thompson still wants vincent to
be alive and didn't put any bullets in
the gun
meanwhile the scientists discovered
something surprising about the machine's
brain
apparently the microchip vincent took
out was a gps for the bomb that was
implanted in her brain
not her consciousness which frees her
from thompson's control
he orders a lockdown immediately and to
shoot the machine and vincent on sight
the soldiers with implants all begins
revolting against thompson's men
and the machine manages to save vincent
from his capture
it turns out the soldiers were able to
speak after all but their communications
cannot be understood by normal humans
as it transcends regular speech she
promises to save his daughter's files
while vincent goes to destroy the aip
build in order to prevent world war
iii thompson begins turning off all the
implants from the soldiers
wiping out half of the forces before
siri intervenes and overrides the system
vincent tries to disable the computers
but is stopped at gunpoint by one of the
scientists
however he's quickly disposed of by the
soldiers who broke out from area 6.
they escaped the room while the ai blows
up along with the scientist
the machine fights her way towards
thompson and disposes all the enemies
with ease
the soldiers try shooting at the machine
with armor-piercing rounds
but fails to stop her as she kills them
one by one
thompson shoots at suri for her betrayal
but the machine arrives just in time and
saves her from being killed
she corners the director as he begs for
his life the machine grants him his wish
and lobotomizes him just like what he
wanted to do to her
vincent arrives at the scene and allows
her to upload his daughter's memories
into her brain
the two embraces as vincent recognizes
that she is the future of mankind
they leave the facility and vincent
proceeds to give the files regarding
dawson to the mother
finally giving her closure vincent plays
with his daughter besides the ocean but
she wants to be with the machine instead
he looks at the machine standing before
the sunrise unsure of humanity's future
while she stares deeply into the
distance
so what do you guys think about this
movie let me know in the comments below
and if you like my video please press
like and subscribe for more
i'll see you guys next time
you